Introduction:

There is a significant increase in personal vehicles which has led to congestion in large cities.
Contributing factors include expanding urban population, aging infrastructure, inefficient and uncoordinated traffic signal 
timing and a lack of real-time data. The document gives the approach of team Sahasra in addressing the problem by using 
Artificial intelligence and Microsoft Azure platform 

Our approach: 
 
1.	Generally on city roads, there are lanes and every lane has a fixed average waiting time for all lanes at the traffic 
junctions. Our approach is to monitor the number of the vehicles in a lane with the help of cameras and data from maps  and when this data analysed in realtime can be used in 
-	Managing the timing of the traffic signal at intersections (Adaptive traffic control)
-	Recommend the drivers to choose appropriate lane to cross the next intersection quickly 
-	Assigning the emergency vehicles with the lane with less vehicles,  alerts the other vehicles to free up the lane if any and the lane will not be recommended to other vehicles until the emergency vehicle crosses the intersection 
        Note: The system is useful in emergencies and it also, helps in reducing pollution and 
        traffic congestion
2.	The data collected for 2-3 years can be used to analyse the traffic conditions in particular time of the day and help people to plan their travel accordingly. It includes the timeframe 
[Time of the day (9-10 am, 10-11 am), business days or non-business days, festival times and traffic conditions.]
3.	Build an app interface for commuters that include time saved in commute, effect on environment to make users environment conscious and we can also help users get info of same route commuters, 
and on few days, the people can have a common ride thereby reducing number of vehicles on road and reducing emissions contributing to environment 

Implementation:

1.	For video processing, we are going to use azure video processing tool from azure media services 
2.	An app interface which recommends lanes to the drivers and real time traffic conditions at that timeframe
3.	App uses MapmyIndia API to show navigation to the users in commute 
4.	App elements include environmental contribution by users indicated in numbers and taking commute with others reduces the number of points 
